# Covid-X-ray

The Covid-X-ray application is a theoretical high-risk AI system for deployment on a commercial IT system. It follows as a use case for my thesis 'Rule-based Monitoring of the European Artificial Intelligence Act'.

**Note: This application is designed to run on an internal development environment.**

It uses MonPoly is a prototype monitoring tool. It checks the compliance of log files with respect to policies that are specified by formulas in Metric First-Order Temporal Logic (MFOTL); see [repository](https://bitbucket.org/monpoly/monpoly/src/master/).

<em>Online monitoring consists of incrementally processing data streams generated by IT-infrastructure to
automatically check system compliance. The European Artificial Intelligence Act (AIA) is the first pro-
posed legislation to provide a comprehensive legal framework for AI. Compliance with the legislation
requires providers of high-risk AI systems to provide documentation that demonstrates their compliance
and supports audit. In this thesis, we show to what degree providers can take advantage of online mon-
itoring to demonstrate their compliance with the AIA. We analyse the AIA and introduce a method of
classifying the regulations paragraphs based on their susceptibility to automatic monitoring. Monitorable
articles are formalised in metric first-order temporal logic (MFOTL) and the monitoring tool MonPoly
identifies and reports all policy violations. The results are validated on a use case where data streams
originating from an AI system, developed and deployed on an enterprise AI platform, are processed
to report relevant AIA violations. In summary, we provide a theoretical approach of a framework of
monitoring AI in regards to the AIA and a practical approach of implementing it.
</em>

The Covid X-ray application is divided into three pages. These pages are a login screen, a Predict
tab and an External verification tab.
The user is initially presented with a ’login’ page where a username and password is required. Each
session in the application is required to be associated with a user since the verification of results has to
involve the identification of a natural person.
The Predict tab is where the remote biometric identification occurs. The user is presented with a chest
computed tomography (CT) scan from an unknown subject. The CT scan is presented as a 3D model
consisting of polygons (3D mesh). The user can rotate and resize the 3D mesh to look for characteristics
of covid infections. In the case where the user diagnoses the owner of the CT scan to be infected with
the virus, the user can click on a Predict button. This will check the biometric data against data stored
in a database containing historic CT scans and the identification of natural persons associated with each
CT scan. The results from the database and the real-time CT scan are presented side by side, and the
user can approve the results. In the case where the user does not diagnose the owner of the CT scan to
be infected with the virus, the user can alternatively click a Next Image button which will present a new
3D mesh.
The External verification tab allows users to review predictions that have previously been made.
Everything approval made in the Predict tab is listed in this tab and the user can select a case and
the results from the database and the real-time CT scan are presented side by side. The user can then
provide an additional verification by approving the results. The same user can not perform both the initial
verification as well as the external verification.
Above the three pages at all times are two boxes. The first box shows all the logs that have been sent
through the app, and the second box shows all violations that have occurred.
